and there's a concept you should really
be familiar with it's what the japanese
call
unagi
isn't that a kind of sushi
hi yeah everyone today we are learning
english with one of the funniest stories
from friends
and trust me you will be laughing out
loud by the end
now today's lesson is extra special i'm
really excited
do you want to know why because today i
get to introduce you to your newest
fluency coach
ollie he is going to be helping me to
teach the lesson
so help me give a warm welcome to ali oh
yeah
thanks ethan what's up everybody i'm
molly your new real life english fluency
coach
i'm from australia but i've been living
in south america
for the past two years i'm really
excited to help you go beyond the
classroom to understand fast speaking
natives
and to bring a little bit of australian
culture too
alright so now let's start the lesson
but quickly for those of you that are
new here
every week we help you to understand
fast speaking natives
without getting lost without missing the
jokes and without
subtitles just like hanure who says that
our lessons help her to boost her
confidence speaking english
we're going to help you to reach your
english learning goals too just hit that
subscribe button and the bell
below and you won't miss any of our new
lessons
so are you ready to learn or nagi with
ross let's go
[Music]
hey hey what have you guys been up to oh
we went to a self-defense class today
yeah kicking a guy in the crotch all
morning really takes it out of you
takes it out of you
no now we can kick anybody's ass yeah
after one class
i don't think so what you want to see me
self-defend myself
go over there and pretend you're a
sexual predator go on i dare you
of course you could defend yourself from
an attack you know is coming
that's not enough look i studied karate
for a long time and there's a concept
you should really be familiar with it's
what the japanese call
unagi
isn't that a kind of sushi
no it's a concept yeah it is it is it's
fresh water eel
all right maybe it means that too oh i
would kill for a salmon skin roll right
now
you know fine get attacked i don't even
care
come on ross we're sorry please tell us
what it is
before we analyze the vocabulary in this
clip we're going to look at three
sentences
where they use interesting features of
connected speech
hey hey what have you guys been up to
takes it out of you
you're fine get attacked i don't even
care
these three utterances show a great deal
of reduction and linking
when we speak fast we say what have you
guys been up to
like what have you guys been up to an
important reduction in this sentence is
the word have
you'll hear people reducing that to of
as in what of you
however ross here reduces it even more
it almost sounds as if he's saying what
are you
let's see some other examples
so what have you been up to so uh
what have you been up to hey hey hey
what have you guys been up to why don't
you try saying it yourself
repeat after me what have you guys been
up to
[Music]
now listen to how rachel and joey say
takes it out of you
kicking a guy in the crotch all morning
really takes it out of you
takes it out of you here you will notice
linking and reduction
of is reduced to uh notice how they both
say you differently
and the words linked together we often
say yeah
instead of you in informal spoken
english so we can see here that joey
emphasized you
but rachel didn't he emphasized it to
humorously imply that it takes it more
out of the guy who is getting kicked in
the crotch
kicking a guy in the crotch all morning
really takes it out of you
takes it out of you now listen to how
ross says i don't even care
no fine get attacked i don't even care
don't usually reduces to don't with our
glottal t
at the end so when we have don't and
even together
they link don't even
i don't even know the man okay i don't
even know where you work
i don't even know how i would go about
it
if you want to learn more about
connected speech then you should check
out this video we made over on our real
life english youtube channel
to watch it next just click up here or
down in the description below
hey what have you guys been up to oh we
went to a self-defense class today
this question is also interesting as an
expression
a lot of students ask me what the
difference is between how are you
and what have you been up to when you
ask what have you been up to
you want to know what that person has
been doing since the last time that you
saw him or her
it's an informal expression so you'd ask
this to a friend you haven't seen in a
long time
or to someone who's often around you but
has been absent recently
how are you is simply used to ask a
person state or feeling in the present
moment
hi guys hey hi hey emily what have you
guys been up to
oh we went to see a collection of
victorian doorknobs at the cooper hewitt
museum
without me
my uncle dragged us there but actually
turns out to be really interesting
do you love friends but find it
difficult to understand fast speaking
natives
then i recommend you try our free
three-part masterclass
in this masterclass you are going to
learn pronunciation
vocabulary and cultural context which
are three important skills when trying
to understand your favorite tv
series to try it today simply click up
here
or down in the description below oh we
went to a self-defense class today
yeah kicking a guy in the crotch all
morning really takes it out of you
if you take a self-defense class you
learn different martial arts techniques
to defend yourself
a common self-defense move is a kick or
hit in the crotch
then humorously rachel says crotch
kicking took it out of her
can you guess what she means
[Music]
example looking after my twin toddlers
takes a lot out of me
it's interesting here that rachel used
you and not me
she does this to say as a general
statement it is a tiring activity
it would make anyone tired doing that
thing
now we can kick anybody's ass yeah after
one class
i don't think so a less vulgar synonym
of this
is to beat someone up when you do this
you physically attack someone
if you ever hurt my little sister
if you ever cause her any unhappiness of
any kind
i will hunt you down
and kick your ass
what i'm i'm serious
what you want to see me self-defend
myself go over there and pretend you're
a sexual predator
to pretend means to behave as if
something is true when you know that it
is not
you can pretend to be something or
pretend to be another person
like this guy who is pretending to be
joey
who the hell are you i'm joey
how are you doing
oh no no no no how you
doing what are you doing damn it carl go
wait in the hall
look i gotta apologize on behalf of carl
who the hell is carl
oh did i not mention carl
is a guy i hired to be my identical twin
for a medical research project
a sexual predator is someone who looks
to have sex with another person
in a predatory manner that is in an
abusive way
which doesn't respect the other person
go over there and pretend you're a
sexual predator
go on i dare you when we say i dare you
we challenge another person to do
something while at the same time
communicating that there will be
consequences
if they do it give her a t-shirt man no
i don't want to you know and i gave her
this hat too so i'm going to take this
back
this one yeah you want that yeah then i
dare you come take it off my head pal
i dare you
[Music]
you guys look ridiculous look i studied
karate
for a long time you probably have heard
of this famous type of martial arts
what is funny here is the smug way in
which ross pronounces it
listen again look i studied karate
for a long time an american or an
australian
would say it like karate and a brit
would say
karate however no normal native would
say it the way ross said it
probably in an attempt to pronounce it
as in japanese
oh i would kill for a salmon skin roll
right now
we say that we would kill for something
when we would really like to have
or do that thing this has been like my
dream since i got my first easy bake
oven and opened
easy monica's bakery
i mean i would kill for this job i mean
i can totally do this job and god knows
i paid my dues
do you know what other common expression
we can say to mean the same thing
[Music]
right you can also say something is to
die for
example the food in this restaurant is
to die for
what she'd die for is a salmon skin roll
which is a type of sushi
[Music]
unagi is a state of total
awareness okay only by achieving true
unagi can you be prepared for any danger
that may befall you
you mean in case someone's trying to
steal your bamboo sleeping mat or your
kettle of fish
i'm saying is it's one thing being
prepared for an attack against like
each other whole another story being
prepared for an attack i don't know
best surprise
all right you knew that was coming but
that doesn't mean you have
unagi
what the hell was that a lesson
in the importance of unagi
you're a freak perhaps
now i'm curious at what point during
those girlish screams would you have
begun to kick my ass
all right so we weren't prepared
i'm sorry i had to take such drastic
measures to make my point but i
look i just want you guys to be safe oh
danger
uh huh unagi
chandler
i sensed it was you
what unagi
i'm always aware
is a state of total awareness
okay only by achieving true unagi can
you be prepared for any danger that may
befall you
awareness is the state of being aware to
be aware
is to have knowledge and understanding
that something is happening or exists
do you have any awareness of what's been
happening with newspapers in the last
10 years not at all i mean truth is i
don't even get them anymore i just read
the news on my phone
it's so much better and it's free yeah
ross here uses an uncommon word
to make his unagi deal sound more
serious than it is
he says unagi prepares you to deal with
any danger that befalls you
this just means to happen to you but it
is a formal word we only use when we
talk about something unpleasant or bad
yes don't do what i'm suggesting great
danger will be fine
great danger will befall you if you
don't stop calling me in the middle of
the night
you mean in case someone's trying to
steal your bamboo sleeping mat or your
kettle of fish
in this clip ross is actually confusing
this word because unagi really means
freshwater eel
he might actually mean zen shin which
means residual mind
phoebe knowing about ross's funny mix-up
of words is being sarcastic
a bamboo sleeping mat and a kettle of
fish are what fishermen
would use
all i'm saying is it's one thing being
prepared for an attack against like each
other
whole another story being prepared for
an attack i don't know surprise
ross here is comparing two different
problems and saying that the second one
is much worse
he does this by first saying it is one
thing and then he mentions the first
problem
he then mentions the second and more
serious problem after
it's a whole nother story you can use
other nouns instead of story
example when you're learning to drive
it's one thing to drive on a quiet
street
it's a whole different thing to drive on
a busy street
keep in mind that the grammatically
correct form of this expression
is a whole other story people often say
nother as a contraction of another
despite the fact that saying a whole
another story
is incorrect grammar you're a freak
perhaps freak is an insulting word
one might say someone is a freak if they
behave in a very weird or strange way
like ross here perhaps is a more formal
way of saying maybe
now i'm curious at what point during
those girlish
screams would you have begun to kick my
ass
we say at what point when we're asking
about the specific moment
something will happen it's a warm summer
evening
not that far back okay
at what point did you begin to feel lost
ross then describes the screams as
girlish
ish is a suffix that we natives use all
the time to make nouns into adjectives
we often use it with colors for example
if something is reddish
it looks somewhat red but not completely
and sometimes we will even use it to
invent new words
for example i could say that even though
my friend was born in the united states
she's lived in london for the past 20
years so she has developed a london-ish
accent
in saying this i would mean that she has
lost her american accent
and speaks more like a person from
london i'm sorry i had to take such
drastic measures to make my point but
look i just want you guys to be
safe to take measures means to take
action to achieve a particular purpose
for example when covert started to
affect various cities around the world
governments and people had to take
measures such as going into lockdown
or wearing masks to prevent the spread
of the disease
as ross puts it his behavior is a
drastic measure
which means extreme drastic is often
collocated with words like measures or
steps
does that mean that you don't have the
numbers on your branch that is correct
yes craig you you realize that we are
trying to decide whether
drastic steps need to be taken ross
explains that those drastic measures he
took were to make his point
if you make your point about something
it means that you need to explain
something very clearly or demonstrate it
with certain actions
oh hey leonard hello leslie hi
okay well good night
[Music]
chandler
i sensed it was you
what if you sense something you feel
that it exists
or it is true without being told or
having proof
example i could sense that something was
wrong
[Music]
hey hey what have you guys been up to oh
we went to a self-defense class today
yeah kicking a guy in the crotch all
morning really takes it out of you
takes it out of you
no now we can kick anybody's ass yeah
after one class
i don't think so what you want to see me
self-defend myself
go over there and pretend you're a
sexual predator go on i dare you
of course you could defend yourself from
an attack you know is coming
that's not enough look i studied karate
for a long time and there's a concept
you should really be familiar with it's
what the japanese call
unagi
isn't that a kind of sushi
no it's a concept yeah it is it is it's
freshwater eel
all right maybe it means that too oh i
would kill for a salmon skin roll right
now
what does rachel mean by kill for a
salmon skin roll
a she might go fishing b she'd love to
eat that
c she dislikes that food
[Music]
not fun get attacked i don't even care
come on ross we're sorry please tell us
what it is
unagi is a state of total
awareness okay only by achieving true
unagi can you be prepared for any danger
that may befall you
which option below is incorrect a good
news be fellas
b a crisis could before the nation c
misfortune befell intruders
[Music]
you mean in case someone's trying to
steal your bamboo sleeping mat or your
kettle of fish
all i'm saying is it's one thing being
prepared for an attack against like
each other whole another story being
prepared for an attack i don't know
surprise
all right you knew that was coming but
that doesn't mean you have
unagi
[Applause]
oh
what the hell was that a lesson
in the importance of unagi
you're a freak perhaps
now i'm curious at what point during
those girlish screams would you have
begun to
kick my ass
all right so we weren't prepared
why is rust taking these measures a he's
a freak
b he cares about the girls c he's
showing his unagi
[Music]
i'm sorry i had to take such drastic
measures to make my point but i
look i just want you guys to be safe
ah unagi
chandler
i sensed it was you
what unagi
i'm always aware ah
salmon skin roll
hey again and thanks for joining me and
ollie today i hope you've had a ton of
fun
and laughed a lot olly andrea and i and
the rest of the real life team
are committed to bringing you better and
better lessons to help you to go beyond
the classroom and take your english
fluency to the next level
we look forward to seeing you soon for
another fun lesson
so if you have not already make sure you
don't miss a single one
by hitting the subscribe button and the
bell down below oh
yeah see definitely phoebe you will not
find
a single game show host whose ass i
cannot kick
no say it say we are even oggy
it's not something you are it's
something you have
say it you know i can easily get out of
this but there's a chance
you could get very very hurt
uh-huh nowhere to run
i don't like sitting up here i'm gonna
go over the wait till they got
here first
why is ross doing that danger oh my god
why is he jumping on those women
we should help them i i don't think they
need any help
[Applause]
what happened i don't know you fell
asleep
that is all yeah yeah yeah
all right well uh i better go yeah i
think that would be best